neural networks are a pretty old
algorithm that was originally motivated
by the goal of having machines that can
mimic the brain now in this class of
course on teaching neural networks to
you because they work really well for
different machine learning problems and
not certainly not just because they're
biologically motivated but in this video
I'd like to give you some of the
background on neural networks so that we
can get a sense of what we can expect
them to do both in the sense of applying
them to modern-day machine learning
problems as well as for those of you
that might be interested in the maybe
the big AI dream of someday building
truly intelligent machines also how
neural networks might pertain to that
the origins of neural networks was as
algorithms that try to mimic the brain
and there was the sense that if we want
to know learning systems well why not
mimic perhaps the most amazing learning
machine we know about which is perhaps
the brain neural networks came to be
very widely used throughout the 1980s
and 1990s and for various reasons as
popularity diminished in the late 90s
but more recently neural networks have
had a major recent resurgence one of the
reasons for this resurgence is that
neural networks are computationally
somewhat more expensive algorithm and
so's only you know maybe someone more
recently that computers became fast
enough to really run large-scale neural
networks and because of that as well as
a few other technical reasons which
we'll talk about later
modern neural networks today are these
state-of-the-art technique for many
applications so when you think about
mimicking the brain well what the human
brain does so many amazing things right
the brain can learn to see process
images learn to hear learn to process or
sense of touch you can you know learn to
do math and to do calculus and the brain
does so many different amazing things it
seems like if you want to mimic the
brain it seems like you have to write
lots of different pieces of software to
mimic all of these different fascinating
amazing things that the brain does but
there's this fascinating hypothesis that
the way the brain does all of these
different things is not with like a
thousand different programs but instead
the brain does the way the brain does it
is with just a single learning algorithm
this is just a hypothesis but let me
share with you some of the evidence for
this this part of the brain that little
red part of the brain is your auditory
cortex and the way your understanding my
voice now is that um your ear is taking
the sound signal and routing the sound
signal to your auditory cortex and
that's what's allowing you to understand
my words neuroscientists have done the
following fascinating experiment where
you cut the wire from the ears to the
auditory cortex and you rewire in this
case an animal's brain so that the
signal from the eyes from the optic
nerve eventually gets relative to the
auditory cortex if you do this it turns
out the auditory cortex will learn to
see and this is a in every single sense
of the word see as we know it so if you
do this to the animals the animals can
perform visual discrimination talks and
that is they can look at images and make
appropriate decisions based on the
images and they're doing it with that
piece of brain tissue here's another
example that red piece of brain tissue
is your somatosensory cortex that's how
you process your sense of touch if you
do a similar rewiring process then the
somatosensory cortex will learn see
because of this and other similar
experiments these are called
neural rewiring experiments there's this
sense that if the same piece of physical
brain tissue can process sight or sounds
or touch then maybe there's a one
learning algorithm that can process
sight or sound or touch and instead of
needing to implement a thousand
different programs or a thousand
different algorithms to do the you know
thousand wonderful things that the brain
does maybe what we need to do is figure
out some approximation or
to whatever the brains learning
algorithm is and implement that and let
the brain learn by itself how to process
these different types of data to
surprisingly large extent it seems as
though we can plug in almost any sensor
to almost any part of the brain and
select within reason the brain will
learn to do of it here are a few more
examples on the upper left is an example
of learning to see with your tongue the
way it works is on this is actually a
system called brain port undergoing you
know FDA trials now to help line people
see by the way it works is you strap a
grayscale camera to your forehead facing
forward taking that that takes a low
resolution grayscale image of what's in
front of you and you then run a wire to
an array of electrodes that you place on
your tongue so that each pixel gets
mapped to a pixel to a location on your
tongue where maybe a high voltage
response to a dark pixel and a low
voltage corresponds to a bright pixel
and even as adults today with this solar
system you and I will be able to learn
to see you know intensive minutes
without tunnels here's a second example
of a human echolocation of humans sonar
so there are two ways you can do this
you can either snap your fingers or
click your tongue oh can do very well
and but they're blind people today that
are actually being trained in schools to
do this and learn to interpret the
pattern of sounds bouncing off your
environment as sonar so if if after you
search on YouTube you're actually videos
that this amazing kid who tragically
because of cancer has his eyeballs
removed so this is a kid with no
eyeballs but by snapping his fingers he
can walk around and never hit anything
he can ride a skateboard she can shoot a
basketball - hoop and she's a kid with
no eyeballs third example is the haptic
belt where if you have a strap around
your waist
ring up buzzers and always have the
northmost one but
you can give a human a directions and
similar to maybe how birds can you sense
that what the sense where North is and
some bizarre example but if you plug it
third eye into the frog the frog will
learn to use that eye as well so it's
pretty amazing to what extent is as if
you can plug in almost any sensor to the
brain and the brains learning algorithm
will just figure out how to learn from
dead laser and view of that data and
there's a sense that if we can figure
out what the brains learning algorithm
is and you're implemented or implement
some approximation to that algorithm on
a computer maybe that would be a bad
shot it you're making real progress
towards the AI the artificial
intelligence dream of someday building
through the intelligent machines now of
course I'm not teaching neural networks
you know just because they might give us
a window into this far off AI dream even
though I'm personally that's one of the
things that I personally work on in my
research life but the main reason I'm
teaching neural networks in this class
is because it's actually a very
effective study art technique for modern
day machine learning applications so in
the next few videos we'll start diving
into the technical details of neural
networks so that you can apply them to
modern day machine learning applications
and get them to work well one on
problems but for me you know one of the
reasons they excite me is that maybe
they give us this this window into what
we might do if we're also thinking of
what algorithms might someday be able to
learn in man and similar to humans can